@node Installation
@chapter Installation

This installation assumes you are running an unix like operation system and
requires @code{make}, @code{makeinfo} and a @strong{c compiler} installed.

The following commands will compile the the code and install @code{olc} binary
(olang compiler), @code{man} pages and @code{info} docs into your system.

@verbatim
$ make
$ make install
@end verbatim

And for uninstall the program run

@verbatim
$ make uninstall
@end verbatim

@section Custom Installation

There are few @code{make} variables which can be used to customize your
installation as described bellow.

@table @samp

@item PREFIX

The prefix where the compiler and docs should be installed, it is set to
@code{/usr/local} if not specified.

@item BINDIR

The path where the compiler binary will be installed, it is set to
@code{$PREFIX/bin} if not specified.

@item DATADIR

The path where the read-only documents will be installed, it is set to
@code{$PREFIX/share} if not specified.

@item MANDIR

The path where the man documents will be installed, it is set to
@code{$DATADIR/man} if not specified.

@item MAN1DIR

The path where the man1 documents will be installed, it is set to
@code{$MANDIR/man1} if not specified.

@item INFODIR

The path where the info documents will be installed, it is set to
@code{$DATADIR/info} if not specified.

@item DESTDIR

In case you are installing the compiler on different root than @code{/} (by
default the install assumes the destination dir as root), you can set the
variable @strong{DESTDIR} on @code{make} for example:

@verbatim
$ make DESTDIR=/mnt/linux-root install
@end verbatim

@end table

@section Developer Tips

If you want to install the compiler but do not want to make it system
available, you might want to have it installed on the @code{XDG}
@strong{~/.local} directory.  Make sure you have set @code{PATH},
@code{MANPATH} and @code{INFOPATH} correctly so you can have the resources
installed available on your shell.

@verbatim
$ make PREFIX=~/.local install
@end verbatim
